join querys
when you define a set you have to use equals to and hash code manditory
singleton class and design pattern
.getinstance method-factory design pattern by ranjith ramachandran
builder design pattern
http status or error status like 404 not found error
methods in array
proxy design pattern
over ridign methods and can we over ride static methods or not?
wrapper class why we are using wrapper classes
run time polymorphusim
wrapper class 
type casting and types of type casting
serialization and deserialization
heap and stack memory -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UcPuWY0wn3w
-> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aAjkJW08BGQ
multithreading 
comparabel and comparator interface
garbage collectors by ranjith rama chandran
getinstance method
extends runtimeexcetpiton
what is stack in and stack trace call by value and call by reference
simpledata format 
what is difference between webserver and application server
where we have to use / or \
jvm working process in java  ->https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tUGiw9C6kso
How to Write Memory-Efficient Java Code      in oracle developers
which type of data we are storing in cache
marker interface
class path resource and file system resources
logger aspect class
stack hierarchy
stack trace
clr+shift+i
var args
where we can change parameters method overriding or over loading
row mapper resutl set 
spring data jpa??
triggers and operations
servlets jsps and jstls
throwable or throws
there is process or interface in sts which shows our methods or some thing directly
why api is vendor based implementation
super();-
ananymous inner class 
reflection api or reflection package
greatest feautre of inheritance is polymorphism 
polymorphic acess
polymorphic retrival
default methods of object like hash code etc
defautl methods inside a class
what is the use of default consutructor if we are using prameterized constructor 
what is serialization and deserialization in java
synchronized this or synchronized
join query
Objects.nonNull(department.getDepartmentName()) && !"".equalsIgnoreCase(department.getDepartmentName()))
Camel case in Java
spring boot comes with default slf4j logger
error handling conditons




Learn to say NO at the right time.
Be brave enough
Try to work independently as much as possible.
Be ready for less increment or low grades even if your performance has been exceptionally great.
Always be bold
Keep your personal life and corporate life balanced
If you're assigned to a task and you're not clear with it, always try to get it cleared before performing that task.
You have to be yourself, nobody is going to help you out all the time.
Don't expect people to care about you
There are no friends in an office.
Everyone is replaceable and will eventually be replaced.
Never write an email when you're angry. It reflects.
Your looks, dress and communication skills matters a lot.
Always try to communicate through the mail.
Never share your salary with your colleagues.
People around you will always try to pull you down. Be careful.
HR is not there to protect you. HR is there to protect the company.
Managers are professional politicians.
If you're stuck with something, do some analysis before you check with somebody.

































ongole team railway tc
aditya reliance
vijay..return money